---
layout: post
title: Had to happen
tags: []
---
<p>If you are part of Steeler's nation then you are either shocked or not surpised at all to find out that <a href="http://www.nfl.com/news/story/09000d5d82503f17/article/steelers-lb-harrison-suspended-one-game-for-mccoy-hit?module=HP11_breaking_news">Harrison was suspended</a>.</p><p>If you haven't seen the hit, you probably don't care to, but there is video in the link above.It clearly shows Harrison droping his helment before contact. The hit has going to be hard, and likley draw a personal foul, but he didn't have to lower the crown of his helmet. He didn't even attempt to wrap up. It is a picture perfect hit for the NFL to make an example of.</p><p>The debate about whether that should be legal or not is pointless. The NFL has made it clear: helmet to helmet hits with intent are no longer part of football. You can call it changing the game if you want, but consider it changed.</p><p>This is the first suspesion for a hit, which had to happen at some point. Even hefty fines aren't as much as game checks and what almost every NFL player truly values is playing the game. Beyond that, teams don't care if their players get fined so they have no inscentive to coach away from these kinds of hits.</p><p>The fact that its a Steeler is no surprise to me. They have been so unrepentant individual and as a group about the changes to the rules in the NFL, it had to be them. They exemplify what the leage office is trying to take out of football.</p><p>As a fan, I'm not happy, but the Steelers brought this upon themselves. I also wouldn't have it any other way. I want the team to play the brand of football that is their identify until it is clear that it is hurting their chances of winning.&nbsp;</p><p>In the end I think the suspension is fair because it sends a very clear message. There is no ambiguity now that this has been done. Hit a QB in the head with intent, you're out for a game.</p><p>&nbsp;</p>
