---
layout: post
title: Justified Fans
tags: []
---
<p>Last week I saw my friend rooting for the Montreal Canadians while they were playing the Pittsburgh Penguins.</p><p>He is a Philly fan generally, so I chided him for betraying his state and his country. He came back at me saying his dad was a Habs fan from when he lived in Montreal.</p><p>That shut me up.</p><p>As anyone knows, being a fan of the team your father (or relative) is a fan of is one of the best justifications. It got me thinking that I should categorize some of the other valid reasons to be a fan.</p><p><strong>Geography<br /></strong>The obvious and easy one is geography. This includes where you grew up and where you went to college.</p><p><strong>Family member played for the organization<br /></strong>There is not statue of limitations on this one and includes minor league teams.<strong></strong></p><p><strong>Live saving procedure at college teaching hospital</strong><br />You might be saying, this one has to be completely rare, but I have a Alabama Crimson Tide and Carolina Tar Heel fan that would say otherwise.</p><p>Outside of that I don't really see any good reasons, here are some bad reasons.</p><p><strong>Favorite player now plays for the team</strong><br />It is fine to be a fan of players, I'm a fan of Shaq but I wasn't an Orlando, then Laker then Heat then Suns now Cleveland fan.</p><p><strong>They won a championship in your formative years<br /></strong>This is a tough one. I have a former roommate who is a Chicago Bears fan because he was five the "Super Bowl Shuffle" year. However, I have to say that this isn't a good reason. Interestingly though if any of his children are Bears fans they would be justified.</p><p><strong>They were the team everyone in your town hated<br /></strong>Another tough one since I have an uncle that is a Dallas fan. Dallas and the Steelers played a good number of important games that the Steelers won. I'm fairly sure my uncle is just a Cowboys fan to be a contrary. Fortunately his son is back in the Black and Gold fold.</p><p>What did I miss? What are some other good and bad reasons to be a fan of a team?</p>
