---
layout: post
title: Facebook a necessary evil
tags: []
---
<p>After the latest <a href="http://www.insidefacebook.com/2012/06/25/facebook-complicates-privacy-settings-and-hide-users-email-addresses-favoring-its-own-messaging-platform/">random self-serving Facebook change</a> today where The Zuck decided it was in my best interest to show my Facebook email address to the world as my prefered address I was very close to de-activating.</p><p>Something I've considered a lot these past few months, but never have been able to pull the trigger on.</p><p>I was hoping Path would be an alternative, but it just doesn't have the people Facebook does and with people a social network isn't all that interesting.</p><p>Then I realized I can get the intimacy of Path myself, I just have to be ruthless about who is my Facebook friend. Not mean, just very picky.&nbsp;I think it's important for everyone to do this, becuase Facebook is not out for my best interest. As a publicly traded company they are out to earn the most dollars they can.&nbsp;</p><p>The reality is there are some folks I love and care about that I wouldn't be as connected to without Facebook so it needs to stick around but on my terms.</p><p>My new rule: the car keys test. If someone showed up at my door looking a bit worse for the wear and asked for my car keys would I hand them over without asking any questions?</p><p>The amount of data my Facebook friends (and whatever wacky apps they add) have access to is about the same in terms of value.</p><p>For some people that's a wide circle for others its smaller. For me it's about 86 peope, which sounds like a lot but when I look through my friend's list they pass the car keys test.</p>
