---
layout: post
title: Musical Opportunities
tags: []
---
<p>Performing music has been a part of my life since I played my first band concert in fourth grade. I don't think I've thanked my parents enough for braving what had to be an experiment in intonation.</p><p>In the next two weeks the two groups I'm a part of: Phinney Ridge Lutheran Church's chancel choir and the Seattle Symphonic Band will both be "performing". The choir performance is during the festival worship of All Saints next Sunday, thus the quotes.</p><p>We will be singing <a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dYAWCuMcVNI">John Rutter's Requiem</a>&nbsp;in pieces throughout both the 8:30am and 11:00am services on Sunday November 4th at <a href="https://maps.google.com/maps?q=phinney+ridge+lutheran+church&amp;ll=47.684141,-122.354629&amp;spn=0.00744,0.017166&amp;fb=1&amp;gl=us&amp;hq=phinney+ridge+lutheran+church&amp;hnear=phinney+ridge+lutheran+church&amp;cid=0,0,11979265373150100947&amp;t=m&amp;z=16&amp;iwloc=A">Phinney Ridge Lutheran Church</a>. At All Saints we remember friends and family you have died but are still with us in spirit.&nbsp;Phinney&nbsp;has a&nbsp;tradition&nbsp;where the congregation is&nbsp;encouraged&nbsp;to bring photos of loved ones who have died to church so that we may be visually reminded&nbsp;of the&nbsp;great cloud of witness we worship with every week.</p><p>Should be a meaningful service all around.</p><p>I just joined the North Seattle Symphonic Band this fall and as I've posted, playing instrumental music is so much fun. We will be playing a concert on Sunday November 11th at 7:00pm at <a href="https://maps.google.com/maps?q=north+seattle+community+college&amp;hl=en&amp;sll=47.684141,-122.354629&amp;sspn=0.00744,0.017166&amp;gl=us&amp;hq=north+seattle+community+college&amp;t=m&amp;z=16">North Seattle Community College's</a> Concert Hall. The program includes a number of pieces, here are a few to listen to before hand: <a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g2zOp9B7gIc">Children's March</a>, <a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ritBkqX4HIw">Suite of Old American Dances</a>&nbsp;(we are not as good as this recording), and&nbsp;<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TGEpK_VB8eg">Britannic Variants</a>&nbsp;(we are better than this recording).</p><p>I would love for anyone to come out and enjoy.</p>
