---
layout: post
title:  Make $100k in a day
comments: false
tags: []
link: https://blog.abravenew.com/make-100k-in-a-day
---
The last week of the calendar year is the biggest online fundraising week of the year. Network for Good, which collects donations for more than 40,000 charities, reports that 30 percent of the donations they collect come in during December. The majority of those donations happen on the 30th or 31st.

We have worked with organizations who raise revenue into the six figures on December 31st alone. You read that right, more than $100,000 in a single day.

The opportunity is clear, but how do you capitalize on it? A Brave New has developed and tested a proven way to raise significant revenue the last week of the year.

This campaign is likely to be the most effective digital fundraising effort of your year. The fact is, donors will give at the end of the year. If you aren’t in front of them, they will give somewhere else.

If you aren’t taking advantage of this vital fundraising time period, you could be leaving tens of thousands of dollars on the table. At A Brave New, this is the kind of opportunity we relish. We know how to help your organization engage your donors and return significant revenue on your investment.

If you would like to talk more about how to take advantage of this opportunity, get in touch with Jacob Smith at [jacob@abravenew.com](../../../com/abravenew/blog/index.html) or (415) 322-8612.

Originally Posted on [A Brave New](https://blog.abravenew.com/make-100k-in-a-day)